bluetooth: services: add AMS client (#4416)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/peripheral_ams_client/README.rst

.. _peripheral_ams_client:

Bluetooth: Peripheral AMS client
################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Peripheral AMS client sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`ams_client_readme`.

Overview
********

The AMS client sample serves a Media Remote (MR).
It can interact with a Media Source (MS), typically an iPhone or some other Apple device.

The sample prints the media details received from the MS on the UART.

> It can request the MS to perform certain actions, such as starting playback and skipping to next track.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can request the MS to perform certain actions, such as starting playback and jumping to next track.
```

Author: Will do.

The sample also requires a device running an AMS Server to connect with (for example, an iPhone which runs iOS, or a Bluetooth Low Energy dongle and nRF Connect for Desktop).

User interface
**************

LED 1:
   * Blinks every two seconds, duty cycle 50%, when the main loop is running.

LED 2:
   * On when connected.

Button 1:
   * Enable and disable MS track attributes notification.

Button 2:
   * Request MS to start or pause playback.

Button 3:
   * Request MS to jump to the next track if it is supported.
     Otherwise, request MS to turn up the volume.

Button 4:
   * Request MS to jump to the previous track if it is supported.
     Otherwise, request MS to turn down the volume.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_ams_client`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

.. _peripheral_ams_client_testing:

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, you can test it either by connecting to an iOS device or by using `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ that emulates an AMS Server.

Testing with an iOS device
--------------------------

#. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kit.

> #. Select the device in the iOS settings -> Bluetooth menu and connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select the device in the iOS :guilabel:`Settings` > :guilabel:`Bluetooth` menu > :guilabel:`Connect`.
```

Author: Will do.

   When requested, proceed with pairing.

> #. Open the Apple Music app and bring up a playlist with some songs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Open the :guilabel:`Apple Music` app and bring up a playlist with some songs.
```

Author: Will do.

#. Press **Button 1** to enable song detail updates.
#. Press **Button 2** to play a song.
   Press again to pause playback.
#. Press **Button 3** to jump to the next song.
#. Press **Button 4** to jump to the previous song.

Testing with nRF Connect for Desktop
------------------------------------

#. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kit.
#. Start `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ and select the connected dongle that is used for communication.

> #. Click the :guilabel:`Server setup` tab.
>    Click the dongle configuration and select :guilabel:`Load setup`.
>    Load the ``AMS_central.ncs`` file that is located under :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_ams_client` in the |NCS| folder structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Set up the server:
    a. Select the :guilabel:`Server setup` tab.
    #. Select :guilabel:`Dongle configuration` > :guilabel:`Load setup`.
    #. Load the ``AMS_central.ncs`` file located under :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_ams_client` in the |NCS| folder structure.
```

Author: Will do.

#. Click :guilabel:`Apply to device`.

> #. Click the :guilabel:`Connection Map` tab.
>    Click the dongle configuration and select :guilabel:`Security parameters`.
>    Check :guilabel:`Perform Bonding`, and click :guilabel:`Apply`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select the :guilabel:`Connection Map` tab.
#. Select :guilabel:`Dongle configuration` > :guilabel:`Security parameters`.
#. Check :guilabel:`Perform Bonding`, and click :guilabel:`Apply`.
```

Author: Will do.

#. Connect to the device from nRF Connect. The device is advertising as "AMS".

> #. Wait until the bond is established. Verify that the UART data is received as follows::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Wait until the bond is established.
    Verify that the UART data is received as follows::
```

Author: Will do.

   +--------------+-------------------+--------------------+

Playback
^^^^^^^^

#. Press **Button 2** to start audio playback.
#. In nRF Connect, verify that the :guilabel:`Apple Remote Command` is updated to ``02``.
#. Set the :guilabel:`Apple Entity Update` value to ``00 01 00 31 2C 31 2E 30 2C 30 2E 30 31 34``.
#. Verify that the UART output is as follows::

      AMS EU: 00,01,00 1,1.0,0.014

   The following table explains the notification.

   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+
   | Field        | Value       | Interpretation         |
   +==============+=============+========================+
   | Entity ID    | 00          | Player                 |
   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+
   | Attribute ID | 01          | Playback Info          |
   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+
   | Flags        | 00          |                        |
   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+
   | Value        | 1,1.0,0.014 | Playing at rate 1.0.   |
   |              |             | Elapsed 0.014 seconds. |
   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+

Next Track
^^^^^^^^^^

> #. Press **Button 3** to skip to next song.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Press **Button 3** to jump to next song.
```

Author: Will do.

#. Press **Button 4** to jump to the previous song.

Testing with nRF Connect for Desktop
------------------------------------

#. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kit.
#. Start `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ and select the connected dongle that is used for communication.
#. Set up the server:
    a. Select the :guilabel:`Server setup` tab.
    #. Select :guilabel:`Dongle configuration` > :guilabel:`Load setup`.
    #. Load the ``AMS_central.ncs`` file located under :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_ams_client` in the |NCS| folder structure.
#. Click :guilabel:`Apply to device`.
#. Select the :guilabel:`Connection Map` tab.
#. Select :guilabel:`Dongle configuration` > :guilabel:`Security parameters`.
#. Check :guilabel:`Perform Bonding`, and click :guilabel:`Apply`.
#. Connect to the device from nRF Connect. The device is advertising as "AMS".
#. Wait until the bond is established.
   Verify that the UART data is received as follows::

      Connected xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx (random)
      The discovery procedure succeeded
      Security changed: xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx (random) level 2
      Pairing completed: xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx (random), bonded: 1

> #. After bonding, verify in nRF Connect that the :guilabel:`Client Characteristic Configuration` (CCCD) value for :guilabel:`Apple Remote Command` and :guilabel:`Apple Entity Update` are set to ``01 00``.

Reviewer: Not sure whether you can talk about nRF Connect. Maybe it needs to be nRF Connect for Desktop, in every instance.

Author: Will modify to nRF Connect for Desktop.

   +--------------+-------------------+--------------------+

Playback
^^^^^^^^

#. Press **Button 2** to start audio playback.
#. In nRF Connect for Desktop, verify that the :guilabel:`Apple Remote Command` is updated to ``02``.
#. Set the :guilabel:`Apple Entity Update` value to ``00 01 00 31 2C 31 2E 30 2C 30 2E 30 31 34``.
#. Verify that the UART output is as follows::

      AMS EU: 00,01,00 1,1.0,0.014

   The following table explains the notification.

   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+
   | Field        | Value       | Interpretation         |
   +==============+=============+========================+
   | Entity ID    | 00          | Player                 |
   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+
   | Attribute ID | 01          | Playback Info          |
   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+
   | Flags        | 00          |                        |
   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+
   | Value        | 1,1.0,0.014 | Playing at rate 1.0.   |
   |              |             | Elapsed 0.014 seconds. |
   +--------------+-------------+------------------------+

> Next Track

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next track
```
Unless this is something that shows up in the UI. Otherwise, no title case, just sentence case.

Author: Will do.

^^^^^^^^^^

#. Press **Button 3** to jump to next song.
#. In nRF Connect for Desktop, verify that the :guilabel:`Apple Remote Command` is updated to ``03``.
#. Set the :guilabel:`Apple Entity Update` value to ``02 03 00 31 38 30 2E 30 30 30``.
#. Verify that the UART output is as follows::

      AMS EU: 02,03,00 180.000

   The notification informs about the updated song duration.

#. Set the :guilabel:`Apple Entity Update` value to ``02 02 00 6E 52 46 35 33 20 53 65 72 69 65 73 20 73 6F 6E 67``.
#. Verify that the UART output is as follows::

      AMS EU: 02,02,00 nRF53 Series song

   The notification informs about the updated song title.

Disconnect
^^^^^^^^^^

> Disconnect the device in nRF Connect for Desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disconnect the device in the Bluetooth Low Energy application of nRF Connect for Desktop.
```

> As the bond information is preserved by nRF Connect for Desktop, you can immediately reconnect to the device by clicking :guilabel:`Connect`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the bond information is preserved by the Bluetooth Low Energy application, you can immediately reconnect to the device by clicking :guilabel:`Connect`.
```
